- [Instructor] Writing output to a database
is another common requirement for batch jobs
that is supported by spring batch.
Spring batch provides several components
for writing information from a batch job
to a database.
Supporting technologies such as Hibernate,
Jdbc, Mongo, and JPA.
In this lesson,
we'll learn how to use JDC support
by using the JDBC batch item writer
to write information to our relational database.
To get started using the JDBC batch item writer
we're going to remove the FlatFileItemWriter configuration
within our item writer method.
Once we take out that configuration,
we can start to configure
our new item writer implementation
the JDBC batch item writer.
To do that,
we can use a JdbcBatchItemWriterBuilder.
The jdbcBatchItemWriterBuilder does require us
to supply a generic argument
which is the type of the pojo we would like to write.
From there, we can then begin the configuration
of our new item writer.
Since we are writing to a relational database,
we'll need to supply a data source
that allows us to connect to the database.
Now, we've already created a data source field
within this class
when we created our item reader,
so we can just go ahead and leverage
that same dependency.
The next thing that we'll need to do
is specify the SQL statement
that will be used to insert into our table.
So I'm going to go ahead
and add the SQL method
and then within our class
I've created a string INSERT_ORDER_SQL.
Let's go take a look at that.
So here is the SQL statement
that can insert into our shipped order output table.
So, we're simply going to read the data
from our shipped order table
and then we're going to write that same data
into a table named shipped order output.
They have the same table structure,
and here we see that insert statement.
So we just list all of the columns
that we're going to insert values into
and then we're using the different parameters
which are ordinal based
within that statement.
So ultimately, this insert statement
is going to be used
to construct a prepared statement
and then we're going to set each of these parameters
by their ordinal position.
Now, in order to facilitate setting those parameters,
we need to provide some additional configuration
to our item writer.
And to do that,
we use an itemPreparedStatementSetter.
So we're going to use that method
on the builder.
And then we're going to create
a new OrderItemPreparedStatementSetter.
And we're just going to stub in that constructor
and then we can call the build method
on our builder
and the final thing we need to do
is just provide this implementation
of a prepared statement setter.
So hover over the error,
hit Ctrl + 1, and then you can create
a new class
and that will bring up this dialogue.
And it will specify the interface
that we need to implement.
And once we hit finish,
here we see that interface.
It's the itemPreparedStatementSetter.
Has a generic type of order.
And then it provides this set values method.
And within the setValues method,
we're going to basically set the different parameters
on the PreparedStatement
using the order that is passed into the setValues method
as an argument.
So, if you've ever worked
with a PreparedStatement,
it has different set methods on it
that correspond with the type.
So here if we want to set the first parameter
within our insert statement,
we can supply the order ID.
And then we just need to work down through
all of the different parameters
within that insert statement.
So the second parameter was the first name
of the individual,
and then the third parameter was the last name
of the customer.
So we can get that from the order.
The next parameter that we're going to set
is the email.
After that, the fifth parameter
is going to be the item ID.
The sixth parameter
that we're going to set
is going to be the item name.
And then the next parameter
is going to be a big decimal,
and it's the seventh parameter,
and it's going to be the cost of the item.
And then the last parameter we're going to set
is the ship date.
So we need to use the set date method.
It's the eighth parameter.
And then anytime we're working with a PreparedStatement
and a date,
we need to use the Java.SQL.Date type,
and that's going to require us
to convert our ship date to milliseconds,
so we'll get the time.
And then we want to be very careful
when we import this final type.
So you'll want to check Java.SQL
in that dialogue box.
And that completes the implementation
of our itemPreparedStatementSetter.
So that's basically setting all the parameters
on the PreparedStatement.
Now, if we head back to our job,
we can go ahead and save our configuration
and there's one missing piece in this puzzle.
The shipped order output table
currently is not on our database.
What we can do
is head over to the MySQL workbench
and here we see the shipped_ordertable.
And because we know they have the same structure
we can go ahead and right click on that
and copy the create statement to the clipboard,
and then we'll just paste it into an editor
and we'll just modify the table name
within the create table statement.
So now the name will be shipped_order_output.
We'll go ahead,
we can run that statement,
create our table,
and now we're set up to run the job.
So I'm going to head over to our terminal,
we'll kick off our script,
and this will build our project,
and then once built,
it's going to run our job
with our new item writer, the JdbcBatchItemWriter.
And that's going to cause all of the input
read into our job
to be written into our new table.
So let's just refresh.
There's our shipped order output table.
And if we query that,
we're going to see
that the data was indeed written into that table
by our JdbcBatchItemWriter.
So out of the box,
the JdbcBatchItemWriter provides us
with a convenient way
to write data from a job
to a relational database.
The rights are managed by spring batch
and executed within a transaction.
This provides us with some fault tolerance
in the case of a failure.
One of the weaknesses of this approach
is the fact that we're using the
ordinal position when we set these parameters.
It's very easy to get the order off
and to incorrectly set the parameters
within that insert statement.
We'll take a look at some ways
that we can be a little bit more resilient
in upcoming lessons.